Active reconnaissance requires you to make some kind of contact with your target. This contact can be a phone call or a visit to the target company under some pretense to gather more information, usually as part of social engineering. Alternatively, it can be a direct connection to the target system, whether visiting their website or checking if their firewall has an SSH port open. Think of it like you are closely inspecting windows and door locks. Hence, it is essential to remember not to engage in active reconnaissance work before getting signed legal authorization from the client. 

In this room, we focus on active reconnaissance. Active reconnaissance begins with direct connections made to the target machine. Any such connection might leave information in the logs showing the client IP address, time of the connection, and duration of the connection, among other things. However, not all connections are suspicious. It is possible to let your active reconnaissance appear as regular client activity. Consider web browsing; no one would suspect a browser connected to a target web server among hundreds of other legitimate users. You can use such techniques to your advantage when working as part of the red team (attackers) and don’t want to alarm the blue team (defenders).

The web browser can be a convenient tool, especially that it is readily available on all systems. There are several ways where you can use a web browser to gather information about a target.

There are also plenty of add-ons for Firefox and Chrome that can help in penetration testing. Here are a few examples:
FoxyProxy lets you quickly change the proxy server you are using to access the target website. This browser extension is convenient when you are using a tool such as Burp Suite or if you need to switch proxy servers regularly. You can get FoxyProxy for Firefox from here.
User-Agent Switcher and Manager give you the ability to pretend to be accessing the webpage from a different operating system or different web browser. In other words, you can pretend to be browsing a site using an iPhone when in fact, you are accessing it from Mozilla Firefox. You can download User-Agent Switcher and Manager for Firefox here.
Wappalyzer provides insights about the technologies used on the visited websites. Such extension is handy, primarily when you collect all this information while browsing the website like any other user. A screenshot of Wappalyzer is shown below. You can find Wappalyzer for Firefox here.
Ping should remind you of the game ping-pong (table tennis). You throw the ball and expect to get it back. The primary purpose of ping is to check whether you can reach the remote system and that the remote system can reach you back. In other words, initially, this was used to check network connectivity; however, we are more interested in its different uses: checking whether the remote system is online.
In simple terms, the ping command sends a packet to a remote system, and the remote system replies. This way, you can conclude that the remote system is online and that the network is working between the two systems.
