RFP an RFP is a formal business document that explains in detail an interest a company is after usually a product or service. An RFP explains why and how a product will be used and what training will be needed to implement the product. For example, a company will write its intended goals, training, evaluations, and roadblock to success in an RFP.
MOU is not a binding agreement between two parties but provides the documentation and paperwork in order to speed up the process. This is used in order to make offers and negotiations with the intention of leading to a binding agreement. An MOU may not be used to close a deal between parties, therefore either party cannot be brought to court through this contract.
MSA is sometimes referred to as the framework agreement, is a contract that governs future payments between parties. This is useful because it the parties to plan for the future and allow both parties to agree on future occasions.  By establishing the deal’s terms at the outset, both parties create a business relationship while still continuing to refine their rights, responsibilities, and expectations. 
SOW is used to describe tasks, payments, standards, and working timelines. SOW is a legally binding agreement, so this contract may be enforced in court. MSA and SOW go hand in hand, so they may be used to describe future projects.  
SLA is a legally binding contract from an ISP to a customer. It goes over in plain terms services provided to a customer, options for compensation, termination options, and problem management. SLA is an integral part of any IT vendor contract. It pulls together information about offered services and customer expectations in one document.
MLA grants the right from an owner, producer, or creator to a third party for the purpose of marketing, or distributing the product. For example, in music, a user grants permission to a record label in order for them to use their recording. In turn, this creates revenue for the user and the owner of the recording. 
