3G (third generation)  Third-generation mobile phone service released in the early 2000s that supported up to 384 Kbps.
    4G (fourth generation) Fourth-generation mobile phone service that is characterized by an all-IP network for both data and voice transmission.
    5G (fifth generation) mobile phone standard requires minimal throughput of 1 Gbps and maxing out at 20 Gbps download and 10 Gbps upload.
    active-active redundancy redundancy strategy in which all redundant resources are kept active at all times and work is distributed among them.
    active-passive redundancy redundancy strategy in which only one or a few redundant resources are kept active at all times, with backup devices on standby ready to fill in if they’re needed.
    AD (administrative distance) A number indicating a protocol’s reliability, with lower values being given higher priority. 
    AS (autonomous system) A collection of connected IP routing prefixes under control of one or more network operators. 
    Asymmetrical transmission technology that offers faster download speeds than upload speeds.
    asymmetrical routing A routing challenge caused when messages going in one direction in a conversation travel a different path than messages going in the other direction.
    bandwidth speed tester A website that tests the current upload and download speeds on a WAN connection.
    best path The most efficient route from one network to another, as calculated by a router.
    BGP (Border Gateway Protocol)  this path-vector routing protocol is the only current EGP (exterior gateway protocol) and is capable of considering many factors in its routing metrics.
    border router A router that connects an autonomous system with an outside network
    Broadband A WAN technology where the network media and available bandwidth are shared between multiple customers.
    cable broadband Broadband Internet access provided over the coaxial cable wiring used for TV signals.
    cable modem A device that modulates and demodulates signals for transmission and reception via cable wiring.
    CDMA (Code Division Multiple Access)  cellular standard that uses spread-spectrum technology, in which a signal is spread over a wide bandwidth 
    cell site The combination of a cellular antenna array and its base station.
    convergence time The time it takes for routers on a network to recognize and adjust to configuration changes or a network outage.
    core router A router that directs data between networks within the same autonomous system.
    CRC error An error statistic that indicates messages are being damaged in transit.
    default route A backup route, usually to another router, used when a router cannot determine a path to a message’s destination.
    DIA (dedicated Internet access) A WAN service where the network media or a portion of its available bandwidth is dedicated to a single customer 
    distance-vector routing protocol used to determine the best route for data based on the distance to a destination.
    DOCSIS (Data Over Cable Service Interface Specifications) Cable-Labs that standardized cable broadband service.
    DSL (digital subscriber line) WAN connection technology that operates over the PSTN
    DSL modem A device that modulates a DSL signal between the ISP’s telephone line and the customer’s Ethernet network.
    dynamic route A route automatically calculated by the router to determine the best path between two networks. 
    edge router 
    EGP (exterior gateway protocol) A router that connects an autonomous system with an outside network 
    EIGRP (Enhanced Interior Gateway Routing Protocol) An advanced distance-vector protocol developed by Cisco that combines some of the features of a link-state protocol and so is sometimes referred to as a hybrid protocol.
    exterior router A router that directs data between autonomous systems, 
    FHRP (First Hop Redundancy Protocol) A type of protocol configured on a router or layer 3 switch to provide a single VIP
    gateway of last resort router on a network that accepts all unroutable messages from other routers.
    Giant A frame that is too large and is dropped. 
    GSM (Global System for Mobile Communications) open standard for cellular networks that uses digital communication of data separated by time slots on a channel.
    HFC (hybrid fiber coaxial) physical infrastructure where fiber-optic cabling connects the cable company’s distribution center to distribution hubs and then to optical nodes near customers;
    hybrid routing protocol A routing protocol that exhibits characteristics of both distance-vector and link-state routing protocols.
    IGP (interior gateway protocol) A type of routing protocol, such as OSPF and IS-IS, used by core routers and edge routers within autonomous systems.
    Interconnection A leased line from a customer’s location or from their ISP to a PoP (point of presence), or colocation, which provides connection with other providers (such as cloud providers).
    interior router A router that directs data between networks within the same autonomous system
    IS-IS (Intermediate System to Intermediate System) A link-state routing protocol that uses a best-path algorithm. 
    leased line Dedicated Internet bandwidth provided over fiber-optic connections.
    link-state routing protocol A type of routing protocol that enables routers to share performance and status information about their connected links with routers throughout the network, 
    local loop The part of a phone system that connects a customer site with a telecommunications carrier’s switching facility.
    long-haul connection A long-distance connection, such as across hundreds of miles, that supports the Internet backbone.
    LTE (Long-Term Evolution) A transitional cellular network technology between 3G and 4G that takes advantage of some improved 4G technologies to exceed 3G speeds but does not reach 4G throughput requirements.
    LTE-A (LTE-Advanced) The latest version of LTE, with theoretical downlink rates approaching true 4G speeds up to 1 Gbps and uplink rates as high as 100 Mbps,
    Modem A modulation/demodulation device that converts between digital and analog signals.
    MON (metropolitan optical network) A dense, localized grid of junctions and fiber cables designed to make direct fiber connections available to as many customers as possible.
    MPLS (multiprotocol label switching) A type of switching that enables multiple types of layer 3 protocols to travel over any one of several connection-oriented layer 2 protocols.
    OSPF (Open Shortest Path First) An IGP (interior gateway protocol) and link-state routing protocol that improves on some of the limitations of RIP (Routing Information Protocol) and can coexist with RIP on a network.
    Overhead The burden placed on the underlying network to support a routing protocol.
    private-direct connection provides connection with other providers (such as cloud providers).
    PSTN (public switched telephone network) The network of lines and carrier equipment that provides wired telephone service to most homes and businesses.
    QoS (quality of service) A group of techniques for adjusting the priority a network assigns to various types of transmissions.
    RIP (Routing Information Protocol) The oldest routing protocol that is still widely used. 
    RIPv2 (Routing Information Protocol, version 2) An updated version of the original RIP routing protocol that generates less broadcast traffic and functions more securely than its predecessor.
    Route 
    routing cost A value assigned to a particular route as judged by the network administrator
    routing loop A failure of a routing protocol that results in messages being transmitted continuously in a loop along the same paths and never reaching their destinations; 
    routing metric Properties of a route used by routing protocols to determine the best path to a destination when various paths are available. 
    routing protocol A set of standards that determines how routers communicate with each other about network status and connections.
    routing table A database stored in a router’s memory that maintains information about the location of hosts and networks and the best paths for forwarding packets between them.
    Runt A message that is so small it is dropped.
    SD-WAN (software-defined wide area network) Abstracted, centralized control of networking devices that manage network functions across a diverse infrastructure.
    SIM (Subscriber Identity Module) card 
    Smartjack A microchip installed in a cellular device to hold data about the subscription a user has with the cellular carrier.
    static route A route manually configured by a network administrator to direct messages along specific paths between networks.
    Symmetrical A characteristic of transmission technology that offers the same download speeds as upload speeds.
    TDMA (time division multiple access) A method of multiplexing in which signals from several sources on a channel are separated by timeslots.
 

